Introduce pure python mode in language basics documentation (#4242)
cython/cython: docs/src/userguide/language_basics.rst

C variable and type definitions
===============================

C variables can be declared by using the :keyword:`cdef` statement, by annotating

> variable by special cython type or using function ``declare()``. Statement :keyword:`cdef`

Reviewer: It will be better to put them into list like
- one
- two
- three

It's not easy to understand this first time reading

Author: done.

and function ``declare()`` can declare either local or
module-level variables, but annotated version currently supports only local variables:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            global_x = declare(cython.int)

>             def main():

Reviewer: Why global_x only added to pure version and content of main function must be module-level

Author: `global_x` was added just to show how to declare global variables (using `declare()` function).

Reviewer: You could use declare in both versions or use cdef in cython version instead of declare, i think I'll look better

                i: cython.int
                j: cython.int
                k: cython.int
                f: cython.float
                g: cython.int[42]
                h: cython.p_float

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

>             cdef int i, j, k

Reviewer: Still misaligned with pure python version

Author: The code is not 100% aligned everywhere. I have focused mainly finish the text around the code tu support both versions.

Reviewer 2: I like how this shows off one of the main advantages of the Cython syntax: it's very concise.

            cdef float f, g[42], *h

Moreover, C :keyword:`struct`, :keyword:`union` or :keyword:`enum` are supported:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

>         .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/struct_union_enum.py

Reviewer: I don't think we should show anything except the note (better to be warning), moreover structs, thought there are close but not substitutes for each other

>         .. NOTE:: Currently, Pure Python mode does not support enums.

Reviewer: Would be good if all notes will be formatted equally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        .. note:: Currently, Pure Python mode does not support enums.
```

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/struct_union_enum.pyx

        See also :ref:`struct-union-enum-styles`

        .. note::

            Structs can be declared as ``cdef packed struct``, which has
            the same effect as the C directive ``#pragma pack(1)``.

        Declaring an enum as ``cpdef`` will create a :pep:`435`-style Python wrapper::

            cpdef enum CheeseState:
                hard = 1
                soft = 2
                runny = 3

        There is currently no special syntax for defining a constant, but you can use
        an anonymous :keyword:`enum` declaration for this purpose, for example,::

            cdef enum:
                tons_of_spam = 3

        .. note::
            the words ``struct``, ``union`` and ``enum`` are used only when
            defining a type, not when referring to it. For example, to declare a variable
            pointing to a ``Grail`` you would write::

                cdef Grail *gp

            and not::

                cdef struct Grail *gp # WRONG

.. note::

>     There is also support for giving names to types by ``ctypedef`` statement or ``typedef()`` function, e.g.

Reviewer: We could move this line to the tabs, but idk is this that necessary

    .. tabs::

        .. group-tab:: Pure Python

            .. code-block:: python

                 ULong = typedef(cython.ulong)

>                  IntPtr = typedef(cython.p_int)

Reviewer: `cython.typedef`

C variable and type definitions
===============================

C variables can be declared by 

> * using the Cython language :keyword:`cdef` statement,
> * annotating variable by special cython type or
> * using function ``declare()``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* using the Cython specific :keyword:`cdef` statement,
* using PEP-484/526 type annotations with C data types or
* using the function ``cython.declare()``.
```

> Statement :keyword:`cdef` and function ``declare()`` can declare either local or
> module-level variables, but annotated version currently supports only local variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The :keyword:`cdef` statement and ``declare()`` can define function-local and
module-level variables, but type annotations only affect local variables.
This is because type annotations are not Cython specific, so Cython keeps
the variables in the module dict (as Python values) instead of making them
module internal C variables. Use ``declare()`` in Python code to explicitly
define global C variables.
```

C variable and type definitions
===============================

C variables can be declared by 

* using the Cython specific :keyword:`cdef` statement,
* using PEP-484/526 type annotations with C data types or
* using the function ``cython.declare()``.

> The :keyword:`cdef` statement and ``declare()`` can define function-local and
> module-level variables, but type annotations only affect local variables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The :keyword:`cdef` statement and ``declare()`` can define function-local and
module-level variables as well as attributes in classes, but type annotations only
affect local variables and attributes and are ignored at the module level.
```

C variable and type definitions
===============================

C variables can be declared by 

* using the Cython specific :keyword:`cdef` statement,
* using PEP-484/526 type annotations with C data types or
* using the function ``cython.declare()``.

The :keyword:`cdef` statement and ``declare()`` can define function-local and
module-level variables as well as attributes in classes, but type annotations only
affect local variables and attributes and are ignored at the module level.
This is because type annotations are not Cython specific, so Cython keeps
the variables in the module dict (as Python values) instead of making them
module internal C variables. Use ``declare()`` in Python code to explicitly
define global C variables.

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

>             global_x = declare(cython.int)
>             def main():

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            a_global_variable = declare(cython.int)

            def func():
```

                i: cython.int
                j: cython.int
                k: cython.int
                f: cython.float
                g: cython.int[42]
                h: cython.p_float

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

>             cdef int i, j, k
>             cdef float f, g[42], *h

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            cdef int a_global_variable

            def func():
                cdef int i, j, k
                cdef float f, g[42], *h
```

        an anonymous :keyword:`enum` declaration for this purpose, for example,::

            cdef enum:
                tons_of_spam = 3

        .. note::
            the words ``struct``, ``union`` and ``enum`` are used only when
            defining a type, not when referring to it. For example, to declare a variable
            pointing to a ``Grail`` struct, you would write::

                cdef Grail *gp

            and not::

                cdef struct Grail *gp  # WRONG

.. note::

    There is also support for giving names to types using the
    ``ctypedef`` statement or the ``cython.typedef()`` function, e.g.

    .. tabs::

        .. group-tab:: Pure Python

            .. code-block:: python

                 ULong = cython.typedef(cython.ulong)

                 IntPtr = cython.typedef(cython.p_int)

        .. group-tab:: Cython

            .. code-block:: cython

                ctypedef unsigned long ULong

                ctypedef int* IntPtr

You can create a C function by declaring it with :keyword:`cdef` or by decorating a Python function with ``@cfunc``:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

>             @cfunc

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            @cython.cfunc
```

                soft = 2
                runny = 3

        There is currently no special syntax for defining a constant, but you can use
        an anonymous :keyword:`enum` declaration for this purpose, for example,::

            cdef enum:
                tons_of_spam = 3

        .. note::
            the words ``struct``, ``union`` and ``enum`` are used only when
            defining a type, not when referring to it. For example, to declare a variable
            pointing to a ``Grail`` you would write::

                cdef Grail *gp

            and not::

                cdef struct Grail *gp # WRONG

            There is also a ``ctypedef`` statement for giving names to types, e.g.::

                ctypedef unsigned long ULong

                ctypedef int* IntPtr

It is also possible to declare functions with :keyword:`cdef`, making them c functions.

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            @cython.cfunc
            def eggs(l: cython.ulong, f: cython.float) -> cython.int:
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef int eggs(unsigned long l, float f):

>                 ...

Reviewer: The versions will not align here, it is easier to achieve by moving the code out to the file and adding a space to the line before the `cdef` line.

===============================

The :keyword:`cdef` statement is used to declare C variables, either local or

> module-level

Reviewer 2: This statement is incorrect for the Python version. Also, since type hints are ignored for global variables, this needs to use the explicit `cython.declare()` command.

Reviewer: > this needs to use the explicit cython.declare() command.

It would be very good to indicate this, for example in a comment or explanation, since this behavior has not yet been documented, although in a good way it belongs [here](https://cython.readthedocs.io/en/latest/src/tutorial/pure.html).

Reviewer: In addition, you can make the pure python version match the version with `cdef` just with `cython.declare()`.
i.e. `cython.declare(i=cython.int, j=cython.int, k=cython.int)`

and for alignment reasons, `import cython` is not needed here, especially since it has already been written about in `two-syntax-variants-used`

Author: done.

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            import cython

            i: cython.int
            j: cython.int
            k: cython.int
            f: cython.float
            g: cython.int[42]
            h: cython.p_float

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef int i, j, k
            cdef float f, g[42], *h

and C :keyword:`struct`, :keyword:`union` or :keyword:`enum` types:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/struct_union_enum.py

>         .. NOTE:: Currently, Pure Python mode does not support enums.

Author: At least, I haven't found any reference to it :-).

>         .. NOTE:: Currently, Pure Python mode does not support enums.

Reviewer: > At least, I haven't found any reference to it :-).

It was worth trying to write enum, and what if it's .. `cython.enum` .., but by chance it's just not documented, lol 🙃

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/struct_union_enum.pyx

        See also :ref:`struct-union-enum-styles`

        .. note::

            Structs can be declared as ``cdef packed struct``, which has

>             the same effect as the C directive ``#pragma pack(1)``.

Reviewer 2: Looks like there's no way to do this in Python syntax. I created #4253 to track it.

        Declaring an enum as ``cpdef`` will create a :pep:`435`-style Python wrapper::

            cpdef enum CheeseState:
                hard = 1
                soft = 2
                runny = 3

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need that much space here.
```suggestion
```

        There is currently no special syntax for defining a constant, but you can use
        an anonymous :keyword:`enum` declaration for this purpose, for example,::

            cdef enum:
                tons_of_spam = 3

        .. note::
            the words ``struct``, ``union`` and ``enum`` are used only when
            defining a type, not when referring to it. For example, to declare a variable
            pointing to a ``Grail`` you would write::

                cdef Grail *gp

            and not::

                cdef struct Grail *gp # WRONG

>             There is also a ``ctypedef`` statement for giving names to types, e.g.::

Reviewer: `cython.typedef`

>             There is also a ``ctypedef`` statement for giving names to types, e.g.::

Author: done, I missed that. Thanks!

                ctypedef unsigned long ULong

                ctypedef int* IntPtr

> It is also possible to declare functions with :keyword:`cdef`, making them c functions.

Reviewer 2: This is confusing when showing the Python syntax version. Probably also applies to other places.

        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/struct_union_enum.py

        .. note:: Currently, Pure Python mode does not support enums.

> 

Reviewer: It's bot the only one, there are other cases that i saw, it's better to replace all note entries in this document with `note`

Reviewer: i just will find and suggest change, i think it'll be more useful

Reviewer: This conversation should be resolved

Types
-----

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        Cython supports annotaions for C types, including pointers.  It provides
        all the standard C types, namely ``char``, ``short``, ``int``, ``long``,
        ``long long`` as well as their ``unsigned`` versions, e.g. ``uint``.
        The special ``bint`` type is used for C boolean values (``int`` with 0/non-0
        values for False/True) and ``Py_ssize_t`` for (signed) sizes of Python
        containers.

        Pointer types are constructed by appending a ``p_`` to the base type

>         they point to, e.g. ``pp_int`` for a pointer to a pointer to a C int.

Reviewer: `by needed number of "p"s and then "_"` Would be great if you shaped this sentence like that, feel free to change it for better fit.

Author: Done thank you!

>         they point to, e.g. ``pp_int`` for a pointer to a pointer to a C int.

Reviewer: `cython.pp_int`

>         Further pointer types can be constructed with ``pointer()`` function.

Reviewer: It's false statement, there are "ppp_"  in shadow.py + very important mention is that it's only for interpretation mode, in the compilation mode there are no limit

Reviewer 2: That's not important at all. In real code, pointers will almost never have more than two indirection levels, let alone more than three. Let's be reasonable.

Reviewer: @scoder, yeah, you probably would never want to use more then two pointers, but documentation should not lie, at least pp should be changed to ppp, so documentation would convey truth

        Arrays use the normal C array syntax, e.g. ``int[10]``, and the size must be known
        at compile time for stack allocated arrays. Cython doesn't support variable length arrays from C99.
        Note that Cython uses array access for pointer dereferencing.

>     .. group-tab:: Cython

Reviewer: Large portion of this tab is copy pasting, so i suggest to move same text out and use tabs only for different sections

Author: Tabs were introduced by mistake here. I have removed them.

        Cython language uses the normal C syntax for C types, including pointers.  It provides
        all the standard C types, namely ``char``, ``short``, ``int``, ``long``,
        ``long long`` as well as their ``unsigned`` versions, e.g. ``unsigned int``.
        The special ``bint`` type is used for C boolean values (``int`` with 0/non-0
        values for False/True) and ``Py_ssize_t`` for (signed) sizes of Python
        containers.

        Pointer types are constructed as in C, by appending a ``*`` to the base type
        they point to, e.g. ``int**`` for a pointer to a pointer to a C int.
        Arrays use the normal C array syntax, e.g. ``int[10]``, and the size must be known
        at compile time for stack allocated arrays. Cython doesn't support variable length arrays from C99.
        Note that Cython uses array access for pointer dereferencing, as ``*x`` is not valid Python syntax,

>         whereas ``x[0]`` is.

Reviewer: I don't get this addiction, can you explain what do you mean by this, please?
", as ``*x`` is not ..."

Reviewer 2: The sentence seems correct and clear to me.

Also, the Python types ``list``, ``dict``, ``tuple``, etc. may be used for
static typing, as well as any user defined :ref:`extension-types`.
For example

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            def main():

>                 foo: list = []

Reviewer: Must he module-level, please remove main

Author: @0dminnimda to be honest I don't understand. @scoder mentioned that annotated variables should be moved to function since Cython does not support annotated global variables:

https://github.com/cython/cython/pull/4242#discussion_r660033760
https://github.com/cython/cython/pull/4242#pullrequestreview-694259168

Hence, I put all code to `main()` function. Or better idea is to use `declare()`? I am not sure what is better :-(

Reviewer 2: Not sure if `main()` is a good name, but it's definitely good enough for now and easy to change later. Let's stick with it.

Reviewer: > Or better idea is to use declare()?

that's the other way of doing this

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef list foo = []

This requires an *exact* match of the class, it does not allow subclasses.
This allows Cython to optimize code by accessing internals of the builtin class,
which is the main reason for declaring builtin types in the first place.

For declared builtin types, Cython uses internally a C variable of type ``PyObject*``.

> .. Note:: The Python types ``int``, ``long``, and ``float`` are not available for static

Reviewer: Why you chose to add note here?

Reviewer 2: Seems a good change to me.

    typing in Cython language and instead interpreted as C ``int``, ``long``, and ``float``
    respectively, as statically typing variables with these Python
    types has zero advantages. On the other hand, annotating in Pure Python with
    ``int``, ``long``, and ``float`` python types will be interpreted as ``PyObject*`` type.

Cython provides an accelerated and typed equivalent of a Python tuple, the ``ctuple``.
A ``ctuple`` is assembled from any valid C types. For example

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            def main():

>                 bar: (cython.double, cython.int)

Reviewer: Must be module-level, please remove main

Author: See https://github.com/cython/cython/pull/4242#discussion_r669362405

Also, the Python types ``list``, ``dict``, ``tuple``, etc. may be used for
static typing, as well as any user defined :ref:`extension-types`.
For example

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

>             foo: list = []

Reviewer 2: This should better be wrapped in a function to make it actually do something. (Same below.)

Author: done.

Types
-----

The Cython language uses the normal C syntax for C types, including pointers.  It provides
all the standard C types, namely ``char``, ``short``, ``int``, ``long``,
``long long`` as well as their ``unsigned`` versions,
e.g. ``unsigned int`` (``cython.uint`` in Python code).
The special ``bint`` type is used for C boolean values (``int`` with 0/non-0
values for False/True) and ``Py_ssize_t`` for (signed) sizes of Python
containers.

Pointer types are constructed as in C when using Cython syntax, by appending a ``*`` to the base type

> they point to, e.g. ``int**`` for a pointer to a pointer to a C int. In Pure python mode, pointer types

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
they point to, e.g. ``int**`` for a pointer to a pointer to a C int. In Pure python mode, simple pointer types
```

use a naming scheme with "p"s instead, separated from the type name with an underscore, e.g. ``cython.pp_int`` for a pointer to

> a pointer to a C int. Further pointer types can be constructed with the ``cython.pointer()`` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a pointer to a C int.  Further pointer types can be constructed with the ``cython.pointer()`` function,
e.g. ``cython.pointer(cython.int)``.
```

Note that Cython uses array access for pointer dereferencing, as ``*x`` is not valid Python syntax,
whereas ``x[0]`` is.

Also, the Python types ``list``, ``dict``, ``tuple``, etc. may be used for
static typing, as well as any user defined :ref:`extension-types`.
For example

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            def main():
                foo: list = []

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef list foo = []

This requires an *exact* match of the class, it does not allow subclasses.
This allows Cython to optimize code by accessing internals of the builtin class,
which is the main reason for declaring builtin types in the first place.

For declared builtin types, Cython uses internally a C variable of type ``PyObject*``.

.. Note:: The Python types ``int``, ``long``, and ``float`` are not available for static
    typing in ``.pyx`` files and instead interpreted as C ``int``, ``long``, and ``float``
    respectively, as statically typing variables with these Python
    types has zero advantages. On the other hand, annotating in Pure Python with

>     ``int``, ``long``, and ``float`` python types will be interpreted as ``object`` type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ``int``, ``long``, and ``float`` Python types will be interpreted as
    Python object types.
```

a pointer to a C int.  Further pointer types can be constructed with the ``cython.pointer()`` function,
e.g. ``cython.pointer(cython.int)``.

Arrays use the normal C array syntax, e.g. ``int[10]``, and the size must be known
at compile time for stack allocated arrays. Cython doesn't support variable length arrays from C99.
Note that Cython uses array access for pointer dereferencing, as ``*x`` is not valid Python syntax,
whereas ``x[0]`` is.

Also, the Python types ``list``, ``dict``, ``tuple``, etc. may be used for
static typing, as well as any user defined :ref:`extension-types`.
For example

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            def main():
                foo: list = []

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef list foo = []

This requires an *exact* match of the class, it does not allow subclasses.
This allows Cython to optimize code by accessing internals of the builtin class,
which is the main reason for declaring builtin types in the first place.

For declared builtin types, Cython uses internally a C variable of type ``PyObject*``.

> .. Note:: The Python types ``int``, ``long``, and ``float`` are not available for static

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: The Python types ``int``, ``long``, and ``float`` are not available for static
```

If you have a series of declarations that all begin with :keyword:`cdef`, you
can group them into a :keyword:`cdef` block like this:

> .. note:: This is supported only by Cython language.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: This is supported only in Cython's ``cdef`` syntax.
```

calling a :keyword:`cdef` method.

Parameters of either type of function can be declared to have C data types,
using normal C declaration syntax. For example,

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            def spam(i: cython.int, s: cython.p_char):
                ...

            @cython.cfunc
            def eggs(l: cython.ulong, f: cython.float) -> cython.int:
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            def spam(int i, char *s):
                ...

            cdef int eggs(unsigned long l, float f):
                ...

``ctuples`` may also be used

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

         def chips(t: (cython.long, cython.long, cython.double)) -> (cython.int, cython.float)
            ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef (int, float) chips((long, long, double) t):

>                 ...

Reviewer: indentation is missing in pure python

Author: done.

When a parameter of a Python function is declared to have a C data type, it is
passed in as a Python object and automatically converted to a C value, if
possible. In other words, the definition of ``spam`` above is equivalent to
writing

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            def spam(python_i, python_s):
                i: cython.int = python_i
                s: cython.p_char = python_s
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            def spam(python_i, python_s):
                cdef int i = python_i
                cdef char* s = python_s

>                 ...

Reviewer: You should check that they are identical after cythonization, because as far as I can remember, you need to use `cython.locals` for this.

Reviewer 2: Why shouldn't annotations work here? They seem to explain the idea well.

Reviewer: > Why shouldn't annotations work here? They seem to explain the idea well.

I'm not talking about the idea, I said that in this case the annotations may not work as we want, and therefore I said to check if the cythonizaed versions correspond, if so, then there is nothing to worry about.

Reviewer 2: Annotations are fine.

Reviewer: @scoder Cython version additionally generates
```c
  __pyx_codeobj__2 = (PyObject*)__Pyx_PyCode_New(2, 0, 0, 4, 0, CO_OPTIMIZED|CO_NEWLOCALS, __pyx_empty_bytes, __pyx_empty_tuple, __pyx_empty_tuple, __pyx_tuple_, __pyx_empty_tuple, __pyx_empty_tuple, __pyx_kp_s_test_pyx, __pyx_n_s_spam, 5, __pyx_empty_bytes); if (unlikely(!__pyx_codeobj__2)) __PYX_ERR(0, 5, __pyx_L1_error)
```
Here easier to see:

```c
  __pyx_codeobj__2 = (PyObject*)__Pyx_PyCode_New(2, 0, 0, 4, 0, CO_OPTIMIZED|CO_NEWLOCALS,
__pyx_empty_bytes, __pyx_empty_tuple, __pyx_empty_tuple, __pyx_tuple_, __pyx_empty_tuple,
__pyx_empty_tuple, __pyx_kp_s_test_pyx, __pyx_n_s_spam, 5, __pyx_empty_bytes);
if (unlikely(!__pyx_codeobj__2)) __PYX_ERR(0, 5, __pyx_L1_error)
```

If you have a series of declarations that all begin with :keyword:`cdef`, you
can group them into a :keyword:`cdef` block like this:

> .. note:: This is supported only by Cython language.

Reviewer: Other option is to use multiple `declare` call it's the option and looks pretty similar

Author: `declare()` can be used for multiple variable declaration but the scope of cdef block is more generic (functions, structs etc).

Reviewer: multiline* sorry

Reviewer: > but the scope of cdef block is more generic (functions, structs etc).

Yeah true, didn't think about it

There are two kinds of function definition in Cython:

> Python functions are defined using the ``def`` statement, as in Python. They take

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Python functions are defined using the :keyword:`def` statement, as in Python. They take
```

:term:`Python objects<Python object>` as parameters and return Python objects.

> C functions are defined using the new :keyword:`cdef` statement in Cython language or by ``@cfunc`` decorator. They take

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
C functions are defined using the :keyword:`cdef` statement in Cython syntax or with the ``@cfunc`` decorator. They take
```

either Python objects or C values as parameters, and can return either Python
objects or C values.

Within a Cython module, Python functions and C functions can call each other
freely, but only Python functions can be called from outside the module by
interpreted Python code. So, any functions that you want to "export" from your
Cython module must be declared as Python functions using ``def``.

> There is also a hybrid function, declared by :keyword:`cpdef` in Cython language or by ``@ccall`` decorator. A hybrid function

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is also a hybrid function, declared with :keyword:`cpdef` in ``.pyx`` files or with the ``@ccall`` decorator.  These functions
```

> can be called from anywhere, but uses the faster C calling conventions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can be called from anywhere, but use the faster C calling convention
```

> when being called from other Cython code. A hybrid function can also be overridden

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
when being called from other Cython code. They can also be overridden
```

by a Python method on a subclass or an instance attribute, even when called from Cython.
If this happens, most performance gains are of course lost and even if it does not,

> there is a tiny overhead in calling a hybfid method from Cython compared to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
there is a tiny overhead in calling such a method from Cython compared to
```

Cython module must be declared as Python functions using ``def``.
There is also a hybrid function, declared with :keyword:`cpdef` in ``.pyx`` files or with the ``@ccall`` decorator.  These functions
can be called from anywhere, but use the faster C calling convention
when being called from other Cython code. They can also be overridden
by a Python method on a subclass or an instance attribute, even when called from Cython.
If this happens, most performance gains are of course lost and even if it does not,
there is a tiny overhead in calling such a method from Cython compared to
calling a C method.

Parameters of either type of function can be declared to have C data types,
using normal C declaration syntax. For example,

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            def spam(i: cython.int, s: cython.p_char):
                ...

            @cfunc
            def eggs(l: cython.ulong, f: cython.float) -> cython.int:
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            def spam(int i, char *s):
                ...

            cdef int eggs(unsigned long l, float f):
                ...

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

objects or C values.

Within a Cython module, Python functions and C functions can call each other
freely, but only Python functions can be called from outside the module by
interpreted Python code. So, any functions that you want to "export" from your
Cython module must be declared as Python functions using ``def``.
There is also a hybrid function, declared with :keyword:`cpdef` in ``.pyx`` files or with the ``@ccall`` decorator.  These functions
can be called from anywhere, but use the faster C calling convention
when being called from other Cython code. They can also be overridden
by a Python method on a subclass or an instance attribute, even when called from Cython.
If this happens, most performance gains are of course lost and even if it does not,
there is a tiny overhead in calling such a method from Cython compared to
calling a C method.

Parameters of either type of function can be declared to have C data types,
using normal C declaration syntax. For example,

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            def spam(i: cython.int, s: cython.p_char):
                ...

>             @cfunc

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            @cython.cfunc
```

            def eggs(l: cython.ulong, f: cython.float) -> cython.int:
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            def spam(int i, char *s):
                ...

            cdef int eggs(unsigned long l, float f):
                ...
``ctuples`` may also be used

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

>             @cfunc

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            @cython.cfunc
```

There are two kinds of function definition in Cython:

Python functions are defined using the ``def`` statement, as in Python. They take
:term:`Python objects<Python object>` as parameters and return Python objects.

> C functions are defined using the new :keyword:`cdef` statement in Cython language or by ``@cfunc`` decorator. They take

Reviewer: Better use tabs for this purpose instead

Reviewer: Apples to other similar cases

Author: Closing based on following comment: https://github.com/cython/cython/pull/4242#issuecomment-879666879

can be called from anywhere, but uses the faster C calling conventions
when being called from other Cython code. A hybrid function can also be overridden
by a Python method on a subclass or an instance attribute, even when called from Cython.
If this happens, most performance gains are of course lost and even if it does not,
there is a tiny overhead in calling a hybfid method from Cython compared to
calling a C method.

Parameters of either type of function can be declared to have C data types,
using normal C declaration syntax. For example,

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            def spam(i: cython.int, s: cython.p_char):
                ...

            @cfunc
            def eggs(l: cython.ulong, f: cython.float) -> cython.int:
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            def spam(int i, char *s):
                ...

            cdef int eggs(unsigned long l, float f):
                ...

``ctuples`` may also be used

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            @cfunc

>             def chips(t: (cython.long, cython.long, cython.double)) -> (cython.int, cython.float):

Reviewer: Probably again will not align

C functions, on the other hand, can have parameters of any type, since they're
passed in directly using a normal C function call.

> C Functions declared using :keyword:`cdef` or ``@cfunc`` decorator with Python object return type, like Python functions, will return a :keyword:`None`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
C Functions declared using :keyword:`cdef` or the ``@cfunc`` decorator with a
Python object return type, like Python functions, will return a :keyword:`None`
```

The name object can also be used to explicitly declare something as a Python
object. This can be useful if the name being declared would otherwise be taken
as the name of a type, for example,

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            @cython.cfunc
            def ftang(int: object):
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef ftang(object int):
                ...

declares a parameter called int which is a Python object. You can also use

> object as the explicit return type of a function, e.g.::

Reviewer: there are no tabs below

Author: Here are no tabs because there is an issue in cython not allowing moving this code to pure python: #2529. I suppose we need a not there about it.

Author: Added note about bug.

If no type is specified for a parameter or return value, it is assumed to be a
Python object. (Note that this is different from the C convention, where it
would default to int.) For example, the following defines a C function that
takes two Python objects as parameters and returns a Python object

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

>             @cfunc

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            @cython.cfunc
```

If no type is specified for a parameter or return value, it is assumed to be a
Python object. (Note that this is different from the C convention, where it
would default to int.) For example, the following defines a C function that
takes two Python objects as parameters and returns a Python object

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            @cfunc
            def spamobjs(x, y):
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

>             cdef spamobjs(x, y):

Reviewer: Will not align

The name object can also be used to explicitly declare something as a Python
object. This can be useful if the name being declared would otherwise be taken
as the name of a type, for example,

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            @cfunc
            def ftang(int: object):
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef ftang(object int):
                ...

declares a parameter called ``int`` which is a Python object. You can also use
object as the explicit return type of a function, e.g.::

    cdef object ftang(object int):
        ...

.. note:: Currently, Cython contains a bug not allowing returning ``object`` in

>     pure python from C function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    pure python from a C function.
```

The name object can also be used to explicitly declare something as a Python
object. This can be useful if the name being declared would otherwise be taken
as the name of a type, for example,

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

>             @cfunc

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            @cython.cfunc
```

            def ftang(int: object):
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef ftang(object int):
                ...

declares a parameter called ``int`` which is a Python object. You can also use
object as the explicit return type of a function, e.g.::

    cdef object ftang(object int):
        ...

.. note:: Currently, Cython contains a bug not allowing returning ``object`` in

>     pure python from a C function.

Reviewer 3: Is there an issue for this that could be referenced here? That would make it easy to find out if the docs become outdated (by seeing that the referenced issue has been closed).

Author: The bug referenced is following: #2529. Not sure whether we want there references to bugs... (I understand that it adds visibility)

The name object can also be used to explicitly declare something as a Python
object. This can be useful if the name being declared would otherwise be taken
as the name of a type, for example,

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            @cfunc
            def ftang(int: object):
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

>             cdef ftang(object int):

Reviewer: Will not align

When in a ``.pyx`` file, the signature is the same as it is in Python itself:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/optional_subclassing.py

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/optional_subclassing.pyx

When in a ``.pxd`` file, the signature is different like this example: ``cdef foo(x=*)``.
This is because the program calling the function just needs to know what signatures are
possible in C, but doesn't need to know the value of the default arguments.:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/optional_subclassing.pxd

>     :caption: optional_subclassing.pxd

Reviewer: py and pyx must also have captions, as they are in pxd

Author: done.

Optional Arguments
------------------

> Unlike C, it is possible to use optional arguments in C and hybrid functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike C, it is possible to use optional arguments in C and ``cpdef``/``@ccall`` functions.
```

If you want such a C function to be able to propagate exceptions, you need
to declare an exception return value for it as a contract with the caller.
Here is an example

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            @cython.exceptval(-1)
            def spam() -> cython.int:
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef int spam() except -1:

>                 ...

Reviewer: same as [this](https://github.com/cython/cython/pull/4242/files#r660140212)

If all possible return values are legal and you
can't reserve one entirely for signalling errors, you can use an alternative
form of exception value declaration

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            @cython.exceptval(-1, check=True)
            def spam() -> cython.int:
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef int spam() except? -1:

>                 ...

Reviewer: same as [this](https://github.com/cython/cython/pull/4242/files#r660140212)

> The "?" indicates that the value ``-1`` only signals a possible error. In this

Reviewer: there should be text about the `check` attribute

Reviewer 2: … and the text would best be placed in the tab to make it change with the syntax display.

Author: done.

case, Cython generates a call to :c:func:`PyErr_Occurred` if the exception value
is returned, to make sure it really received an exception and not just a normal
result.

There is also a third form of exception value declaration

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            @cython.exceptval(check=True)
            def spam() -> cython.int:
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef int spam() except *:

>                 ...

Reviewer: same as [this](https://github.com/cython/cython/pull/4242/files#r660140212)

``NULL`` pointer, so any function returning a Python object has a well-defined
error return value.

While this is always the case for C functions, functions

> defined as C functions or hybryd functions can return arbitrary C types,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
defined as C functions or ``cpdef``/``@ccall`` functions can return arbitrary C types,
```

``NULL`` pointer, so any function returning a Python object has a well-defined
error return value.

While this is always the case for C functions, functions
defined as C functions or ``cpdef``/``@ccall`` functions can return arbitrary C types,
which do not have such a well-defined error return value.  Thus, if an
exception is detected in such a function, a warning message is printed,
the exception is ignored, and the function returns immediately without
propagating the exception to its caller.

If you want such a C function to be able to propagate exceptions, you need
to declare an exception return value for it as a contract with the caller.
Here is an example

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

>             @cfunc
>             @exceptval(-1)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            @cython.cfunc
            @cython.exceptval(-1)
```

``NULL`` pointer, so any function returning a Python object has a well-defined
error return value.

While this is always the case for C functions, functions
defined as C functions or hybryd functions can return arbitrary C types,
which do not have such a well-defined error return value.  Thus, if an
exception is detected in such a function, a warning message is printed,
the exception is ignored, and the function returns immediately without
propagating the exception to its caller.

If you want such a C function to be able to propagate exceptions, you need
to declare an exception return value for it as a contract with the caller.
Here is an example

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            @exceptval(-1)
            def spam() -> cython.int:
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

>             cdef int spam() except -1:

Reviewer: Will not align

If all possible return values are legal and you
can't reserve one entirely for signalling errors, you can use an alternative
form of exception value declaration

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

>             @cfunc
>             @exceptval(-1, check=True)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            @cython.cfunc
            @cython.exceptval(-1, check=True)
```

            def spam() -> cython.int:
                ...

>         The ``check=True`` indicates that the value ``-1`` only signals a possible error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        The keyword argument ``check=True`` signals that the value ``-1`` _may_ be an error.
```

I can see that the formulation existed before, but I find it hard to parse.

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef int spam() except? -1:
                ...

>         The ``?`` indicates that the value ``-1`` only signals a possible error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        The ``?`` indicates that the value ``-1`` _may_ be an error.
```

Consistency with the above.

In this case, Cython generates a call to :c:func:`PyErr_Occurred` if the exception value
is returned, to make sure it really received an exception and not just a normal
result.

There is also a third form of exception value declaration

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

>             @cfunc
>             @exceptval(check=True)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            @cython.cfunc
            @cython.exceptval(check=True)
```

If all possible return values are legal and you
can't reserve one entirely for signalling errors, you can use an alternative
form of exception value declaration

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            @exceptval(-1, check=True)
            def spam() -> cython.int:
                ...

        The ``check=True`` indicates that the value ``-1`` only signals a possible error.
        In this

>         case, Cython generates a call to :c:func:`PyErr_Occurred` if the exception value

Reviewer: no need in new line here and in corresponding tab

Author: fixed.

        is returned, to make sure it really received an exception and not just a normal
        result.

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef int spam() except? -1:
                ...

        The ``?`` indicates that the value ``-1`` only signals a possible error.
        In this
        case, Cython generates a call to :c:func:`PyErr_Occurred` if the exception value

>         is returned, to make sure it really received an exception and not just a normal

Reviewer: Please, move the same text out of tabs

Author: fixed.

        result.

There is also a third form of exception value declaration

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

>             @exceptval(check=True)

Reviewer: You forgot `cython.cfunc` and same in other places

Reviewer: But I doubt it a little, so you better double check

Author: Done thank you!

            def spam() -> cython.int:
                ...

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

>             cdef int spam() except *:

Reviewer: Will not align

    cdef int spam() except +

> .. note:: Pure python mode does not have equivalent to `except +`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: These declarations are not used in Python code, only in ``.pxd``  and ``.pyx`` files.
```

    cdef int spam() except +

> .. note:: Pure python mode currently does not have equivalent to `except +`.

Reviewer: Created issue for that #4282

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: Pure python mode currently does not have equivalent to `except +`. (Github issue :issue:`4282`)
```

Reviewer: And also it would be really great if you will add those references to all other notes that needs that.

Reviewer: As said in #4282 we should not allow it, and it should be reflected in the text + this conversation should be resolved

      int (*grail)(int, char*) except -1

>   .. note:: Pointer to function is currently not supported by pure python mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  .. note:: Pointers to functions are currently not supported by pure Python mode.
```

from a non-Python-aware function such as :func:`fopen`, you will have to check the
return value and raise it yourself, for example:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/open_file.py

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/open_file.pyx

.. _overriding_in_extension_types:

Overriding in extension types
-----------------------------

> Hybrid methods can override C methods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``cpdef``/``@ccall`` methods can override C methods:
```

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/optional_subclassing.py

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/optional_subclassing.pyx

When subclassing an extension type with a Python class,

> C methods can override hybrid methods but not C methods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Python methods can override ``cpdef``/``@ccall`` methods but not plain C methods:
```

compile it.

The solution is to assign the result of the concatenation to a Python
variable, and then obtain the ``char*`` from that, i.e.

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            s: cython.p_char
            p = pystring1 + pystring2

>             s = p

Reviewer 2: This needs a function.

Author: done.

Type Casting
------------

> Where C uses ``"("`` and ``")"``, Cython uses ``"<"`` and ``">"``. For example

Reviewer: Pure python text should talk about `cython.cast`

Author: done

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            p: cython.p_char
            q: cython.p_float
            p = cython.cast(cython.p_char, q)

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef char *p
            cdef float *q
            p = <char*>q

When casting a C value to a Python object type or vice versa,

> Cython will attempt a coercion. Simple examples are casts like ``<int>pyobj``,

Reviewer: [same](https://github.com/cython/cython/pull/4242/files#r660170813)

live long enough, you will need to copy the C string.

Cython detects and prevents some mistakes of this kind. For instance, if you
attempt something like

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            def main():
                s: cython.p_char

>                 s = pystring1 + pystring2

Reviewer: Again, this should be module-level and there should be no main

compile it.

The solution is to assign the result of the concatenation to a Python

> variable, and then obtain the pointer to char from that, i.e.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
variable, and then obtain the ``char*`` from that, i.e.
```

compile it.

The solution is to assign the result of the concatenation to a Python
variable, and then obtain the pointer to char from that, i.e.

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            def main():
                s: cython.p_char
                p = pystring1 + pystring2

>                 s = p

Reviewer: this should be module-level and there should be no main

Type Casting
------------

> Cython language supports type casting in a simmilar way as C. Where C uses ``"("`` and ``")"``,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Cython language supports type casting in a similar way as C. Where C uses ``"("`` and ``")"``,
```

> Cython uses ``"<"`` and ``">"``. In pure python mode, ``cast()`` function is used. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cython uses ``"<"`` and ``">"``.  In pure python mode, the ``cython.cast()`` function is used.  For example:
```

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            def main():
                p: cython.p_char
                q: cython.p_float
                p = cast(cython.p_char, q)

        When casting a C value to a Python object type or vice versa,

>         Cython will attempt a coercion. Simple examples are casts like ``cast(int, pyobj)``,
>         which converts a Python number to a plain C ``int`` value, or ``cast(bytes, charptr)``,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Cython will attempt a coercion. Simple examples are casts like ``cast(int, pyobj_value)``,
        which converts a Python number to a plain C ``int`` value, or ``cast(bytes, charptr_value)``,
```

        which copies a C ``char*`` string into a new Python bytes object.

         .. note:: Cython will not prevent a redundant cast, but emits a warning for it.

        To get the address of some Python object, use a cast to a pointer type
        like ``cast(p_void, ...)`` or ``cast(pointer(PyObject), ...)``.
        You can also cast a C pointer back to a Python object reference
        with ``cast(object, ...)``, or a more specific builtin or extension type
        (e.g. ``cast(MyExtType, ptr)``). This will increase the reference count of
        the object by one, i.e. the cast returns an owned reference.
        Here is an example:

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef char *p
            cdef float *q
            p = <char*>q

        When casting a C value to a Python object type or vice versa,

>         Cython will attempt a coercion. Simple examples are casts like ``<int>pyobj``,
>         which converts a Python number to a plain C ``int`` value, or ``<bytes>charptr``,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Cython will attempt a coercion. Simple examples are casts like ``<int>pyobj_value``,
        which converts a Python number to a plain C ``int`` value, or ``<bytes>charptr_value``,
```

        which copies a C ``char*`` string into a new Python bytes object.

         .. note:: Cython will not prevent a redundant cast, but emits a warning for it.

        To get the address of some Python object, use a cast to a pointer type
        like ``<void*>`` or ``<PyObject*>``.
        You can also cast a C pointer back to a Python object reference
        with ``<object>``, or a more specific builtin or extension type
        (e.g. ``<MyExtType>ptr``). This will increase the reference count of
        the object by one, i.e. the cast returns an owned reference.
        Here is an example:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/casting_python.pxd
            :caption: casting_python.pxd
        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/casting_python.py
            :caption: casting_python.py

>         Casting to ``cast(object, ...)`` creates an owned reference. Cython will automatically

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Casting with ``cast(object, ...)`` creates an owned reference. Cython will automatically
```

        perform a ``Py_INCREF`` and ``Py_DECREF`` operation. Casting to
        ``cast(pointer(PyObject), ...)`` creates a borrowed reference, leaving the refcount unchanged.

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/casting_python.pyx
            :caption: casting_python.pyx

        The precedence of ``<...>`` is such that ``<type>a.b.c`` is interpreted as ``<type>(a.b.c)``.

        Casting to ``<object>`` creates an owned reference. Cython will automatically
        perform a ``Py_INCREF`` and ``Py_DECREF`` operation. Casting to
        ``<PyObject *>`` creates a borrowed reference, leaving the refcount unchanged.

.. _checked_type_casts:

Checked Type Casts
------------------

A cast like ``<MyExtensionType>x`` or ``cast(MyExtensionType, x)`` will cast ``x`` to the class
``MyExtensionType`` without any checking at all.

> To have a cast checked, use the syntax like: ``<MyExtensionType?>x`` in Cython language

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To have a cast checked, use ``<MyExtensionType?>x`` in Cython syntax
```

Type Casting
------------

The Cython language supports type casting in a similar way as C. Where C uses ``"("`` and ``")"``,
Cython uses ``"<"`` and ``">"``.  In pure python mode, the ``cython.cast()`` function is used.  For example:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            def main():
                p: cython.p_char
                q: cython.p_float
                p = cast(cython.p_char, q)

        When casting a C value to a Python object type or vice versa,
        Cython will attempt a coercion. Simple examples are casts like ``cast(int, pyobj_value)``,

>         which converts a Python number to a plain C ``int`` value, or ``cast(bytes, charptr_value)``,
>         which copies a C ``char*`` string into a new Python bytes object.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        which convert a Python number to a plain C ``int`` value, or the statement ``cast(bytes, charptr_value)``,
        which copies a C ``char*`` string into a new Python bytes object.
```

Casts [...] which convert [...] or `<xxx>`** which copies [...]

**  changed object for clarity & readability

         .. note:: Cython will not prevent a redundant cast, but emits a warning for it.

        To get the address of some Python object, use a cast to a pointer type
        like ``cast(p_void, ...)`` or ``cast(pointer(PyObject), ...)``.

>         You can also cast a C pointer back to a Python object reference
>         with ``cast(object, ...)``, or a more specific builtin or extension type
>         (e.g. ``cast(MyExtType, ptr)``). This will increase the reference count of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        You can also cast a C pointer back to a Python object reference
        with ``cast(object, ...)``, or to a more specific builtin or extension type
        (e.g. ``cast(MyExtType, ptr)``). This will increase the reference count of
```

        the object by one, i.e. the cast returns an owned reference.
        Here is an example:

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. code-block:: cython

            cdef char *p
            cdef float *q
            p = <char*>q

        When casting a C value to a Python object type or vice versa,

>         Cython will attempt a coercion. Simple examples are casts like ``<int>pyobj_value``,
>         which converts a Python number to a plain C ``int`` value, or ``<bytes>charptr_value``,
>         which copies a C ``char*`` string into a new Python bytes object.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Cython will attempt a coercion. Simple examples are casts like ``<int>pyobj_value``,
        which convert a Python number to a plain C ``int`` value, or the statement ``<bytes>charptr_value``,
        which copies a C ``char*`` string into a new Python bytes object.
```

As above

         .. note:: Cython will not prevent a redundant cast, but emits a warning for it.

        To get the address of some Python object, use a cast to a pointer type
        like ``<void*>`` or ``<PyObject*>``.
        You can also cast a C pointer back to a Python object reference

>         with ``<object>``, or a more specific builtin or extension type

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        with ``<object>``, or to a more specific builtin or extension type
```

Type Casting
------------

Cython language supports type casting in a simmilar way as C. Where C uses ``"("`` and ``")"``,

> Cython uses ``"<"`` and ``">"``. In pure python mode, ``cast()`` function is used. For example:

Reviewer: `cython.cast`
You may consider moving this to tabs too

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Pure Python

        .. code-block:: python

            def main():
                p: cython.p_char
                q: cython.p_float
                p = cast(cython.p_char, q)

        When casting a C value to a Python object type or vice versa,
        Cython will attempt a coercion. Simple examples are casts like ``cast(int, pyobj)``,
        which converts a Python number to a plain C ``int`` value, or ``cast(bytes, charptr)``,
        which copies a C ``char*`` string into a new Python bytes object.

         .. note:: Cython will not prevent a redundant cast, but emits a warning for it.

        To get the address of some Python object, use a cast to a pointer type
        like ``cast(p_void, ...)`` or ``cast(pointer(PyObject), ...)``.
        You can also cast a C pointer back to a Python object reference
        with ``cast(object, ...)``, or a more specific builtin or extension type
        (e.g. ``cast(MyExtType, ptr)``). This will increase the reference count of
        the object by one, i.e. the cast returns an owned reference.

>         Here is an example:

Reviewer: The only place as far where you should not move test, yeah it'll be better it you could turn off tabs but will left finctionality of changing content. (I think it's good issue for sphinx-tabs repo)

            :caption: casting_python.pxd
        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/casting_python.py
            :caption: casting_python.py

        Casting to ``cast(object, ...)`` creates an owned reference. Cython will automatically
        perform a ``Py_INCREF`` and ``Py_DECREF`` operation. Casting to
        ``cast(pointer(PyObject), ...)`` creates a borrowed reference, leaving the refcount unchanged.

    .. group-tab:: Cython

        .. literalinclude:: ../../examples/userguide/language_basics/casting_python.pyx
            :caption: casting_python.pyx

        The precedence of ``<...>`` is such that ``<type>a.b.c`` is interpreted as ``<type>(a.b.c)``.

        Casting to ``<object>`` creates an owned reference. Cython will automatically
        perform a ``Py_INCREF`` and ``Py_DECREF`` operation. Casting to
        ``<PyObject *>`` creates a borrowed reference, leaving the refcount unchanged.

.. _checked_type_casts:

Checked Type Casts
------------------

A cast like ``<MyExtensionType>x`` or ``cast(MyExtensionType, x)`` will cast ``x`` to the class
``MyExtensionType`` without any checking at all.

> To have a cast checked, use the syntax like: ``<MyExtensionType?>x`` in Cython language

Reviewer: Will be good to move to tabs

Reviewer: Just as reminder, i wil not comment on every one like those

Author: Based on https://github.com/cython/cython/pull/4242#issuecomment-879666879 I would close it without change.

* There is no unary ``*`` operator in Cython. Instead of ``*p``, use ``p[0]``
* There is an ``&`` operator, with the same semantics as in C.
* The null C pointer is called ``NULL``, not ``0`` (and ``NULL`` is a reserved word).

> * Type casts are written ``<type>value`` , for example,

Reviewer: [same](https://github.com/cython/cython/pull/4242/files#r660170813)

> * Type casts are written ``<type>value`` , for example,

Reviewer: [same](https://github.com/cython/cython/pull/4242/files#r660170813)

Author: done

  .. tabs::

      .. group-tab:: Pure Python

          .. code-block:: python

              p: cython.p_char
              q: cython.p_float
              p = cython.cast(cython.p_char, q)

      .. group-tab:: Cython

          .. code-block:: cython

              cdef char* p, float* q

>               p = <char*>q

Reviewer: take a look [here](https://github.com/cython/cython/pull/4242/files#r660136709)

Reviewer: Alternatively, you can split `cdef` across two lines.

Author: cdef splitted across two lines.

* An integer literal is treated as a C constant, and will
  be truncated to whatever size your C compiler thinks appropriate.

>   To get a Python integer (of arbitrary precision) cast immediately to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  To get a Python integer (of arbitrary precision), cast immediately to
```

  an object (e.g. ``<object>100000000000000000000`` or ``cast(object, 100000000000000000000)``). The ``L``, ``LL``,

>   and ``U`` suffixes have the same meaning in Cython language as in C.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  and ``U`` suffixes have the same meaning in Cython syntax as in C.
```

* There is no ``->`` operator in Cython. Instead of ``p->x``, use ``p.x``
* There is no unary ``*`` operator in Cython. Instead of ``*p``, use ``p[0]``

> * There is an ``&`` operator in Cython language, with the same semantics as in C. In pure python mode use ``address()`` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* There is an ``&`` operator in Cython, with the same semantics as in C.
  In pure python mode, use the ``cython.address()`` function instead.
```

> * The null C pointer is called ``NULL``, not ``0``. ``NULL`` is a reserved word in Cython language

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The null C pointer is called ``NULL``, not ``0``. ``NULL`` is a reserved word in Cython
```

* An integer literal is treated as a C constant, and will
  be truncated to whatever size your C compiler thinks appropriate.
  To get a Python integer (of arbitrary precision) cast immediately to
  an object (e.g. ``<object>100000000000000000000`` or ``cast(object, 100000000000000000000)``). The ``L``, ``LL``,
  and ``U`` suffixes have the same meaning in Cython language as in C.
* There is no ``->`` operator in Cython. Instead of ``p->x``, use ``p.x``
* There is no unary ``*`` operator in Cython. Instead of ``*p``, use ``p[0]``
* There is an ``&`` operator in Cython language, with the same semantics as in C. In pure python mode use ``address()`` function.

> * The null C pointer is called ``NULL``, not ``0``. ``NULL`` is a reserved word in Cython language

Reviewer: `cython.NULL` for pure python

  and special object in pure python mode.
* Type casts are written ``<type>value`` or ``cast(type, value)``, for example,

  .. tabs::

      .. group-tab:: Pure Python

          .. code-block:: python

              def main():
                  p: cython.p_char
                  q: cython.p_float

>                   p = cast(cython.p_char, q)

Reviewer: You know, main and stuff

Integer for-loops
------------------

> .. note:: This syntax is supported only by Cython language.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: This syntax is supported only in Cython files and not in Python.
```

Integer for-loops
------------------

> .. note:: This syntax is supported only in Cython files and not in Python.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: This syntax is supported only in Cython files. Use a normal `for-in-range()` loop instead.
```

Some features are available for conditional compilation and compile-time
constants within a Cython source file.

.. note::

    Cython currently does not support conditional compilation and compile-time

>     definitions in Pure Python mode.

Reviewer: I propose split this to two notes to each subsection and add references to those issues: #4286, #4287
